Then we move on to classes and prototypes.
Well, I'm sure you've used it in
JavaScript, we can use classes and
we can also extend classes.
So in this case, we have an animal
class and we can create a mammal,
it's still an animal.
So we still wanna have some of
these properties in this case name.
All animals have names all
mammals have names but
mammals can breed unlike
that's not all animals.
Yeah, we have a canine, while canines,
extends mammal cuz they can breathe, but
then they can also howl.
So wolves and dogs.
And then we have dogs, which extends
canine, but they can actually wag their
tail, which I just learned
yesterday that not all canines do.
It's just dogs and wolves, I guess.
But anyway,
we can make it more specific every time.
Now, of course, when we create a class,
there is something to remember is that's
all the properties in constructor
are specific to that instance, and
everything not on the constructor
is added to the prototype.
So in this case, we have a dog1 and dog2,
and we create a new instance of dog.
And we have name and
breed on the constructor, so
they all get added to that instance,
so they all take up memory.
We have name and breed, like Max and
Labrador, and then we have Spot and
Dalmatian.
But bark and
wagTail are all defined on the prototype.
So it's not directly on the instance,
it goes down to prototype
chain to find those methods.
So if we were to invoke them,
JavaScript would be like, well, I don't
have the bark method on the instance.
I'll go down the prototype chain, and
then it finds it on Dog.prototype.
So as you can also imagine the methods
that all instances would have in common
we wanna add to the prototype
cuz this doesn't take up memory.
If bark and
wagTail would be on the constructor,
we would just have two
identical functions, but
each on an instance of this would
all take up memory for no reason.
Yeah we can get the prototype of
a specific instance with __proto__ this is
deprecated cuz it can be a bit dangerous
cuz you can also modify the prototype
that way and you should not do that.
Or you can use object
that getPrototypeOf and
then the instance to get the prototype
just something to remember.
So then we already go to the first
question with prototypes.
Creating a new User instance would create
a new login function in memory each time.
Is that true or is that false?
Well, the right answer to this is false.
Also based on what I just explained,
so we have the user.prototype.
And then we have a user1 and
user2 instance.
But the only properties on these
instances is what's in the constructor,
which is user name.
Everything else will just
be added to the prototype.
So yeah, we won't be creating new or
setting up new memory space,
every time we create a new user instance,
but we do for username of course, but
that's just a string, that's fine.
We're not creating a new
function in memory each time.
All right, next one, which of
the following statements are true?
So we have a Dog class that in
the constructor has a username and
a wagTail function, and it also has
a bark method up on the class body.
And then we have two instances,
we have dog1 and dog2.
And yeah, it's up to you to see which ones
would be strictly equal to each other.
So the right statements are A,
C, D, and E.
So what we have here is we have the dog
prototype and then we have two instances,
we have dog1 and dog2.
So first saying that dog1.wagtail
= dog2.wagtail where
we're strictly equaling
the returned value of wagTail and
that is just a string wagging tail and
strings are strictly equal to each other.
However, when we compare
the actual function to each other,
then they're not equal because we
have the function on the constructor.
So they both point to different
function objects in memory.
And when strictly comparing objects,
it's false,
cuz we're comparing different references
to different spots in memory.
So that one's false.
But in this case, it's also kind of stupid
that we added it to the constructor cuz
it's just a function we should
have added it to the prototype.
But that's just what happens when
you add it to the constructor.
And comparing dog1.bark and dog2.bark
while that is the same because they both
point to the bark method on the dog
prototype, so they both point to the same
function objects are the same
spot in memory, so that's true.
Object get prototype of dog1 and
dog2 that's also true that both
point to the same prototype.
And dog1.constructor and
dog2.constructor that is pointing to
the constructor function on the prototype.
And that actually gets called
when we create a new instance.
And when we say new dog, actually,
that constructor function is called.
But yeah, we're just comparing the same
function object to each other.
So the same spot in memory so that one
is true, yeah so in this case, don't add
wagTail to your constructor doesn't
make sense, it's not instance dependent.
So they should have been on the prototype,
just like bark.
Cool, there are no more questions
we'll go to the next one.
What gets logged?
Is it 2 2, 2 3, 1 1, 3 2, or TypeError?
So we have the Counter class,
then we have increments,
which increments this .count by one.
We have a Counter(1) instance, and
then we say that the initial count is 1.
We invoke the increments method.
Then we have CounterTwo and
we use object.create and just so
you know with object.create we can
create a new object that just has
the prototype to the object
that we passed as the argument.
So in this case CounterTwo is an object
with a prototype pointing to CounterOne.
But then on CounterTwo we also
invoke the increment method.
So, what gets logged when we log
CounterOne.count and CounterTwo.count?
So the right answer to this is 2 and 3.
Let's see why, so, we have the Counter
class which has the Counter prototype.
And then first we say CounterOne with
the initial value of Count as one.
Then we invoke the increment method on it,
which that's kind of true.
Then we create CounterTwo
with Object.create,
which just has the prototype
pointing to CounterOne.
But then we do something kind of tricky.
And this is something also kind of tricky
with prototypes in JavaScript cuz we
increment this.count,
we modified this.count.
However, when we modify something on
a prototype in JavaScript and it doesn't
have it on its own instance, it actually
creates it on the instance itself.
This is just something to remember cuz
this, otherwise it should have been 3 3,
but that's not the case.
Because we modified something that
was only available in the prototype,
JavaScript will actually create that
same property on the instance instead.
So in this case, it first created count 2,
sorry about that count 2,
because it didn't have it yet and
we are referencing this account and
modifying that value, so then it modified
it to 3 but only on that instance.
So, let me just show you this
in the browser, can I do that?
I'm just not gonnq invoke
this first counterTwo.
Here you can see that
counterTwo is nothing,
it just has a reference to the prototype,
Counter with count:2.
But now when we do CounterTwo.increment,
CounterTwo,
you can see that it does
have that count property.
However, on the prototype, it's still 2.
And that was only the case because we
cannot modify stuff in a prototype and
JavaScript kind of does is to protect us.
Cuz if we accidentally modify something on
prototype and we have a lot of instances
pointing to that prototype and we didn't
know that we modified it, it would
just replicate that modified behavior over
all instances, and we don't want that.
So whenever we access something
on a prototype, it's fine.
Whenever we modify it,
it will create the actual property on
the instance to something to remember.
And we did it because we
incremented count by 1.
So that's why it's three and two.
All right, question 19, what gets logged?
We have a class again with
a constructor color green, and
then we have a static method,
for changeColor.
And this adds color to the new color and
returns this a color, and
then we have freddie, and he's green, and
then we wanna change the color to orange.
What gets logged?
Is it orange, purple, green,
TypeError, or undefined?
All right, so the answer to this is
a TypeError because we're using static,
and with static, all we're saying is that
the method is only available on the actual
class itself but not on the instance.
That's just something you gotta know
whenever you see a static keyword.
This is really just kind of if you
wanna define it on the class itself
maybe cloning it or
creating it whenever we use this in.
I don't know if you noticed,
pass it to Chrome real quick.
Yeah, well,
typing code in Keynote is not the best.
So we have it, Chameleon.changeColor.
Here you can see that it's that function,
but if we do new Chameleon,
it won't be there.
We have color cuz i's on the constructor,
but that's about it.
So it's just, I don't know I think static
is used for, yeah, if you wanna clone
a certain class or change the behavior
when it's created, stuff like that.
But that's what static is for.
So it's not the same as private, private
is that you can only use it within methods
within the class,
that's not what static is.
We can also not use changeColor
on a method in the class itself.
It's just saying it's not on the
instances, it's only on the class itself,
which is chameleon and
not a new chameleon instance.
So saying changeColor is an object,
we're not doing anything,
it's not a function, so
it throws a TypeError.
It's like what are you
trying to do change colors?
It's not a function, cuz changeColor
is undefined cuz it's an instance and
that there's a TypeError.
Fun stuff, all right, last one for classes
and prototypes which statements are true.
We have a class user with
a username in the constructor and
a login method on the prototype.
Then we have the user instance.
So yeah, it's up to you to see which
are strictly equal to each other.
All right, so
the statements that are true is only A.
Let's see why.
All right, so we have a user instance,
for which the prototype points to the,
a user shouldn't have wagTail,
that should be.
Yeah, wait one second,
this should not have wagTail.
This should be username John Doe.
Not that it matters,
I just want it to not be too bad,
John, all right, well the rest will do.
So we have.
The User class and this one has this is
what I tried to say before, this one has
an additional prototype property that
points to that User prototype function and
that one has the login and
the constructor from that User class.
So the User instance with username John
Doe has a prototype that points to that
User prototype.
The user itself is, or
the prototype of User itself,
points to function, or
the basic function object.
Because when we see class user I'm
just gonna copy this in Chrome again,
I just like Chrome more cuz you can expand
things and you cannot do that in VS Code.
User., you can use all these methods,
but where do they come from?
Well, they come from the function
constructor cuz we can do it's
new function, or whatever.
Cuz classes are essentially saying,
or the function constructors
that we used before, cuz we could
also do function user something,
and then you could have a function
constructor the same way.
But then we introduce classes, but they
still kind of have the same functionality
as these function constructors
that we use to use, prior to ESXi.
So class User is inheriting a lot of
methods or properties from this function,
which on the prototype is null
cuz it's kind of like the end of
the prototype chain for
function instances from there.
But then it has an additional
actual prototype property,
cuz it's a class that points
to that User prototype.
So it's not the same as like
getPrototypeOf or __proto,
that's different cuz user.__proto
would point to function.
Cuz it's a class which is essentially
the same as a function constructor.